Hello everyone and welcome to the lecture on math functions with our We've talked a bit about some built
in features in our.
Now we're going to talk about a few math functions with tar that you may find useful.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio.
All right so here our studio this is just a few math functions.
And then at the end of this I'll show you a great resource you can get a full list of all the math functions
available in our person we're going to discuss.
ABS which computes the absolute value.
So for instance if I go ahead and say abs of two I get two back and if I get abs of negative two I get
again positive two is the absolute value since the distance from zero I can also pass this to an entire
vector.
So for instance negative to negative 3 0 4 and I pass ABS of V I will get the absolute value and it
will go ahead and broadcast that operation to every element in that vector.
Next I want to show some We've actually seen some earlier.
You can go ahead and just say some of the vector and or return the son of some of the vector.
You can also do mean of a vector they'll compute the arithmetic mean.
And we can also use round to round values.
So imagine I have a value for instance 2.3 for whatever I have all these other floating point numbers
pass the decimal point that maybe I don't want to show.
So I can actually use round to do that to prevent from showing it.
That is the way this works is you end up putting the number you want around and then a second argument
.
Digits and how many digits you want passed.
Decimal points.
So if I want to just pass a decimal point I just put it to you actually have to specify digits.
If you just leave it as the second argument for instance 3.
Let's go ahead and put in a number above five so we can see how it rounds.
I notice this gets around the two two point three seven eight with three digits pass the decimal place
.
OK.
Now what I want to show you quickly is how you can Google search for a great cheat sheet that has a
list of all the math functions and various other functions with are.
So let's go ahead and jump to a browser on a good and open up Chrome browser.
OK so here I am at Google Chrome.
All you have typed in is our reference card search for that.
And your first pop up or your first entry in the search results should be this our reference card Crann
code and click on that and you'll get a PTF of the short reference card with a bunch of useful references
and built in features and functions in our including file input output.
Getting help data creation slicing extracting data.
It is election manipulation.
And like I mentioned all the various math functions you can use with are.
This is a great reference card to have as you're learning how to program with are and need a reference
either a quick shortcuts or how to get help with are.
OK.
That's it for this lecture.
Go ahead and make sure you download this.
Our reference card is going to be really useful throughout your learning process.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture